---
title:  "Pentathlon path to silver medal 🥈"
date:   2016-01-29T23:59:59+03:00
draft:  true
tags:   ["pentathlon"]
---

_Even earlier career path to pentathlon may be added here._

In 2004, when I was only 4 years old my parents decided that I need to do swimming (to improve stability of my back). I started to learn swimming there, there was always a trainer in the water with us. Most of the time we did some kind of exercises for specific group of muscles or to improve our skill in one of the swimming styles. In the end of our 45 minutes activity we got 10 minutes of random stuff that we liked: playing with a ball, swimming in a chaos, jumping from sideboard. All this stuff happend in a small pool with very small depth (so that childred wouldn't be scared and could touch the floor).

_Pictures of small me in a swimming pool_

Around 2007, when I joined my school (Gymnasium №63) we moved to other swimming group, where we trained with Vladimir Mikhaylovich Smetanin. We didn't like him a lot at that time, but now I see all the qualities that he had and how much effort he put into us. Until 2013 we trained with him. We traveled to summer camps with him each year (where we did a lot of swimming and physical training). We did participate in competitions in our city. I think there were about 60 of us, who trained with him. And we still have a contact with the guys from that group.

_Pictures from smetanin trainings & travel & etc._

In 2013 it was the end of my elementary school. And at this point my parents and I needed to make a decision:
1. Move to sports school & try to become a professional swimmer;
2. Stay in Gymnasium & do pentathlon as a side sport;

Swimming is a very competitive sport. Leaving Gymnasium in favour of doing professional swimming seemed a poor option.


I sarted doing pentathlon in 2014, when I was a boy of 14 y.o. At the age of 15 (in 2015) Alexander Petrovich Gerasimenko, a coach of older athletes group approached me and proposed that in the next year (2016) we could start treat competitions seriously. _"We could fight for Top-3 in our age group (15-16 y.o.)"_ he said.

_SPB competitions photo (2015) may be added here + Nikon_

During the 2015 we took several local competitions as well as some Nation-wide ones. However they were more about getting familiar with competitions life and pressure rather than achieving some provocative goals. So in 2016 I took not my first serious Nation-wide competitions. Our goal for this year was to get into Youth Russian National Pentathlon team.

The goal was ambitious. For me it sounded like something out of my scope actually. Looking backwards I see that my coach actually had a plan, but only now I see that.

Personal: Top-2/68; Team: Top-1/11

_to be continued_